Before we drop into the meat of
the course here on people analytics and
talk about details, and how and
why you should do these analytics,
we want to give you a few examples of
firms that are using theses techniques.
The first is Teach for America.
Teach for America is an organization
that provides teachers to underserved,
underprivileged school
districts around the country.
They do this by hiring students straight
out of college and training them and
then putting them into these schools for
a couple of years.
And they've been doing this for
14 or 15 years now.
An interesting thing about Teach For
America is this, you might be surprised,
but they're actually
very analytic savvy and
they've been paying a lot of
attention to their hiring process and
the performance of their teachers,
for years now.
Specifically, they evaluate, they compare
their performance of teachers over time to
the predictions they had when they hired
the person about how they would perform.
They do this in order to
improve the hiring process.
So they see tens of thousands
of applicants every year.
In recent years, they've seen 50 and
60,000 applicants.
This leads to a funneled process,
where they vet the CDs, the resumes at one
stage, they invite some of those to do a
phone interview, they invite some of those
on site to do a face to face interview,
and then they hire some subset of those.
By looking rigorously at who
makes it through the process and
how good their assessments are in
comparison to what actually happens down
the road, they've been able to
optimize this hiring process.
They're much more efficient now
about bringing the right number from
the resume level to
the phone interview level.
And then the right percentage
of those to the on site,
allowing them to make better decisions and
use their resources more efficiently.
Another example is a little
bit less surprising.
This example comes from one of the most
analytic savvy companies in the world,
Google, who a few years ago also wanted
to evaluate their hiring practices.
They were going through for
years, significant growth and
spending considerable time within
the firm interviewing potential hires.
They eventually decided, do these
interviews actually make any difference?
They had read the literature which
raises the question about how diagnostic
interviews really are and ran the numbers.
What they found was they were not
very good at predicting interviews,
were not very good at predicting
employee performance down the road.
This is a real problem
whenever you're spending
ten managers interview time on every
potential hire that comes through.
As a result, they did something
that is very un Google like.
They provided an edict from above
which they never do that said,
you can't schedule more than four
interviews with managers when you
have a potential hire come through.
You just can't spend that amount of our
resources because we've run the numbers
and it's not worth it.
It's not worth,
the analytics say it's not worth it.
Final example comes from
the financial services industry.
This has been the industry probably second
most enthusiastic about people
analytics after technology.
And an example from Credit Suisse.
Credit Suisse believes that a 1% increase
in their retention, if they can retain
their employees, they can save the company
75 to $100 million dollars a year.
So financial services, one of the most
important assets is the people.
They're going to try to retain their
best people a little bit longer and
a little more effectively.
They did this with a three year study,
looking at factors that
led the people to leave the firm, or
led people to stay within the firm.
One of the things they found,
one of the surprising results was that
those who changed jobs internally were
more likely to stay with the firm.
They call this stickiness.
They said changing jobs increases
an employee's stickiness.
Once they identified that,
they had some levers they could
pull to push for more stickiness.
So for example, prior to that
analysis they had posted internally,
less than 50% of the new
jobs that came up.
But because of that analysis, they
realized we need to be placing our people,
moving our people more rather
than letting them leave the firm.
So they increased the postings to more
than 80% now of the new openings get
posted internally, leading to
hundreds more internal hires and
according to the models more sticky
employees, lower retention, and
ultimately, higher earnings.
Those are just three examples, there
are many, many others across industries.
Firms and technology,
financial services, telecommunications,
automotive, consumer packaged goods,
energy, Shell oil.
You wouldn't know it,
lots of people analytics,
not-for-profits, not only Teach for
America.
They are finding better leverage for
retaining key employees,
more diagnostic methods of hiring,
who their most valuable employees are,
how to compose most productive teams,
and many other things.
These are just some of examples.
These should provide some motivation for
all of us to get better at this.
Which is exactly why we
hope you're here and
exactly what we want to talk about
as we go through the course.